fix: Rehaul SAML SSO landing page and Auth0 (#1222)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/auth0.mdx

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Auth0
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Auth0

To configure Appsmith to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.

> 2. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Auth0 settings. 

Reviewer: is the Entity URL getting pasted anywhere?

Author: No it's not in Auth0.

##  Configure Auth0

1. Log in to your [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account and go to **Applications** > **Create Application**. 
2. In the **Create application** modal, select **Regular Web Application** and click **Create**.
3. Once your application is created, you’re taken to the Quick Start screen. Go to the **Settings** tab.
4. Scroll down to the **Application URIs** and add the **Redirect URL** in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field.
5. Click **Save Changes**.

> ## Configure Auth0 in Appsmith

Reviewer: using the same language as on the platform

1. Open the copied **Metadata URL** in a browser tab and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Idp data" value="auth0idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file and locate the following XML tags:

    a. `<EntityDescriptor>`

    b. `<SingleSignOnService>`

    c. `<X509Certificate>`
    
    d. `<NameIDFormat>`

2. In the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page, click **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section. Add the following values from XML tags as per the table below:

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **Appsmith Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | **Entity ID**               | Add the value of **entityID** attribute from `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Entity ID**               | Paste the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
```

Author: Sorry I committed it. But the change you suggested here changes the meaning of the sentence. You have to paste the value of the entityID attribute present in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag to the Entity ID in Appsmith. I'm telling the user what to add in Entity ID.
